# Categories

Events in FlexiCal can be assigned to categories with custom names.
These categories then allow for customized formatting of event titles by
category, and selection of events to be displayed by category.

## Creating New Categories

Category creation is accomplished in the event form described in [the
page on creating events](<?n=basic/Creating, Editing and Copying Events.en.txt>).
Toward the bottom of that form there is a drop-down menu for selecting a
category for the event being edited.  Within that menu is the selection
"<{new-category}>".  To create a new category, use that selection and
then type the new category name in the blank space to the right.  If you
leave out a name by accident, the new category name will be set to
"<{unspecified}>".

Note that events in new categories are not automatically displayed on the
calendar.  To configure the calendar to display the new category, read
the next section.

## Selecting Categories for Display

In the button block below the calendar, there is a button labeled
<{configure}> next to the label *<{categories}>* and a number.  The number
reflects how many categories are currently displayed on the calendar.
You can customize which categories are displayed by clicking the
<{configure}> button to reach Category Selection form, then selecting
the checkboxes for the categories you want to display, or deselecting
the ones for the categories you want to suppress.  This is possible for
all users, and the categories selected for display are remembered as
long as the session lasts.

## Category Administration

With sufficient privileges, user will see a button in the blocks of
button links below the calendar that says <{modcategories}>.  This leads
to a page containing a form in which you can make lots of customized
changes to the categories present in the calendar.

### Formatting Event Titles and Event Key Entries

In Calendar View, event titles can be easily distinguished by category
with the help of custom formatting.  In the Modify Categories form
mentioned above, there is a text field entitled <{style}>, where you can
customize the text style for each category.  This affects not only the
event titles in Calendar View, but also the style of category names in
the Category Key and in the Event List View.  The styles are simple
property value declarations as found in Cascading Style Sheets.

Here are some basic pointers.  A property name should be followed by a
colon (:) and an optional space.  After that, write the value you wish
to assign that property, followed by a semicolon (;).  For example, you
can set the text color to red using the property "color" and the value
"red" like this: `color: red;`.  Another property setting may follow the
semicolon, like this: `color: red; background-color: transparent;`.

There is plentiful reference information online for properties in
Cascading Style Sheets.  For example see the information found [on the
Colors page of CSS documentation][w3colors].  You can adjust fonts using
properties [from the Fonts page][w3fonts].  Some of the properties [on
the Text page][w3text] may also be useful.

[w3colors]:  http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/colors.html
[w3fonts]: http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/fonts.html
[w3text]: http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/text.html

While many different property settings may produce an effect, they will
not all be equally useful.  You will quickly see the effects of your
changes by experimentation.  For your convenience, there is a button on
the Modify Categories form that will show you those effects on the form
itself, without actually leaving the form.  The button is labeled
<{savebutton}>.

### Renaming Categories

Another text field on the Modify Categories form has the heading
<{newname}>.  Any text typed into that field for any of the categories
will become the new name for that category when the form is saved.

### Deleting Categories

Categories may be deleted by checking the checkbox in the <{deletestr}>
column of the Modify Categories form.  However, be warned that this will
also delete all events in that category too.  Because of the potential
loss of data, any category deletions must be confirmed by using the
checkbox at the very bottom of the form *in addition* to the delete
checkboxes for each category to be deleted.

If you wish to delete categories without deleting all the associated
events, then you will have to use the event filtering feature to change
the categories of the events you wish to save *before* you delete the
categories in question.  Here are the steps to use:

1. Go to Event List View, on a date at or before the first event you want to
  save, and with a span reaching at least to the latest event you wish
  to save.  (See the documentation on
  [Event List View](<?n=views/Event List View.en.txt>) for more information.)

2. Using the Category Selection form (described above), choose to display
  *only* the category you wish to delete.

3. Click the <{filter}> button in the button block below the calendar,
  To configure the filter, put `.*` in the title, and click
  "<{filtersubmitstr}>".  (For more information, see [the section on
  Filtering events](?n=filtering).  At this point, you should see only
  the events you wish to save.

4. At the top of the event listing, there will be a series of button
  links.  Click the one labeled <{category}>, and either choose an
  existing category in which to save the events, or create a new
  category name the same way you would in the Event Form, as described
  above.

Once the events have been changed to a different category, you can go
ahead and delete the original category, with all of its remaining
events.

### Hiding Categories

You can make certain categories of events hidden from view for anonymous
users, who are not logged in.  In the Modify Categories form, simply
check the checkbox in the <{hide}> column for the categories you wish to
hide, and submit or save the form.

### Suppressing Category Listing in the Category Key

Sometimes you might want to suppress the listing of a category in the
category key in Calendar View.  The events will still appear in the
calendar, but there will be no entry in the Category Key to associate
their formatting with the event titles.  To suppress the listing, click
the checkbox in the <{suppress key listing}> column for the categories
you wish to suppress.

<!- vim: set tw=72 ft=markdown :->
