# Export to Google Calendar

Since there's a nice interface into Google Calendar for PHP web
applications, and since the library needed to use it is freely
available, it is a fairly simple thing to export events from a FlexiCal
calendar into Google Calendar.  The caveat is that the two systems work
a little differently.

If you don't care about the differences, don't read this paragraph.  For
one thing, Google Calendar already supports the full iCalendar
specification (As far as I know -- RFC 2445), and FlexiCal does not.  In
fact, FlexiCal takes an approach somewhat different from iCalendar by
allowing for arbitrarily associated
([related](<?n=basic/Related Events.en.txt>)) events.  That helps to make up
for the lack of repeating events in FlexiCal, but the two concepts have
different objectives in mind.  (Related events are computationally
cheaper to search and render, but they take up more storage space, which
allows for wide variations between them.)  Google Calendar can import
and export iCalendar events in a standard format.  It would be
impossible to do so in FlexiCal without losing some information.  As of
this writing, the decisive advantage of FlexiCal over Google Calendar in
my view is that FlexiCal can produce a usable paper copy of a standard
1-month calendar.

Yet there are also enough similarities between FlexiCal and Google
Calendar to make it possible to export *most* of the event data from
FlexiCal.  If you would like to try it, you will need a login to Google
Calendar, and then follow these steps:

1. Configure FlexiCal to work with Google Calendar as instructed in [the
   Installation help page](?n=Installation.en.txt).

   Once your Google credentials are configured in FlexiCal, a filtered
   List View will show an additional button link in the row of batch
   buttons across the top, entitled *<{sendtogoogle}>*.
2. Filter the events by category, date, and/or the fields in the Filter
   form.  (See [Finding Events](<?n=filtering/Finding Events.en.txt>).)
3. Click the *<{sendtogoogle}>* button link to send all of the filtered
   events to your personal calendar in Google Calendar.

There are other methods of exporting provided by the Google Calendar
programming interface.  It should be practically feasible to provide a
way to export in other ways, or to import events from Google Calendar
into FlexiCal.

<!- vim: set tw=72 ft=markdown :->
