# Related Events

Some events can be designated as related events, which allows them to be
manipulated as a group.  For related events, two extra icons will appear
with the other icons, when a user is logged in with sufficient
privileges.  They function as follows.

* ![Show All](../images/showall.png) The Show All icon immediately
  customizes ListView to display all of the events related to the event
  that was selected.  To return to the previous view, click the
  "Unfilter" button in the button group at the bottom of the page.

* ![Delete All](../images/multitrash.png) The Delete All icon works the
  same as the Delete icon, only it allows you to delete *all* records
  related to the one selected, including the selected record.  This is a
  powerful function, so use it with caution.

## Event Details Page

When viewing the details of an event that's related to others, a
line of navigation links will appear on the right side, allowing the
user to navigate instantly to the details of the next or previous
related event, if one exists.

## Making Related Copies

When copying an event, a checkbox in the copy form, when checked, will
designate all the copies made of the current event to be related to the
event being copied.  If the event being copied is already related to
other events, then all of the copies will become related to the existing
group of related events.  If not, then all the copies, together with the
original, will form a new group of related events.

## Editing Related Events Together

When editing an event that is related to others, an <{Include Related}>
checkbox will appear on the edit form. When it is checked, *all* related
events will be updated.  If a change is made to the date of the event
being edited, the dates of all related events will be adjusted the same
number of days that the date of the current event is being adjusted.  If
the <{Include Related}> checkbox is not checked, then changes are only
made to the current event, and its relation or relatedness to other
events will be unchanged.

## Forcing a Collection of Events to Be Related

In Event List View, when a filter has been set, there will be a button
at the top of the screen that will force all events shown to be related,
based upon the first event shown.  Note that you can also narrow the
listing of events by category and date range before forcing them to be
related.

## Removing an Event from a Related Group

If you no longer wish an event to be related to other events, you should
copy it to a new event on the same date, while leaving the <{make copies
related}> checkbox unchecked.  You may then delete the original, as you
wish.  Note that you can tell which one is related to others by the
icons that appear, as described above.

<!- vim: set tw=72 ft=markdown :->
