# Calendar View

The classic printed calendar is a landscape-oriented page, wider than
its height.  Weeks are rows, and days of the week are columns.  The
traditional ordering of days begins on Sunday and ends on Saturday.

## Why Sunday through Saturday?

Despite the pagan history of those names, this ordering reflects the
biblical worldview of a 7-day time in which God created the world and
then rested from His work.  The day that God rested also became the day
on which the Israelites rested on a weekly basis, their "Sabbath Day."
That day was viewed as the last day of the week, and corresponds to our
"Saturday."  Despite the similarity between "Sabbath" and "Satur-", the
two words are not related.  "Sabbath" is the Hebrew word "rest," and
"Saturday" is named after the pagan Roman agricultural god, Saturn.

Though we could conceivably reckon the start of our weeks on any day we
choose, and we could possibly use weeks of any arbitrary number of days,
Calendar View respects the biblical worldview.  Some people have started
their weeks on Monday, so that the entire weekend (Saturday and Sunday)
is reckoned in the same week.  That is possible, but it leads to
confusion.  Besides that, it also betrays a lack of historical grounding
in the reasons for ending our weeks on Saturday and beginning them on
Sunday.

As for ending on Saturday, the reason should be obvious:  all things
were made in six days, and God rested on the seventh, which He later
established as the Sabbath Day, and is now called Saturday.  By ending
our weeks on Saturday, we remind ourselves that the time always comes
for our work and productivity to end, whether at the end of the week,
the end of our lives, or the end of the world.  Just as God rested on
the seventh day, our use of the same day reminds us of these things.

As for beginning the week on Sunday, it follows from identifying
Saturday with the Sabbath that the first day of Creation was what we
call "Sunday" (though the sun wasn't created until the fourth day).  The
first "Sunday" was the beginning of everything.  Then, when the eternal
Son of God, who is one essence with the Father, became a man and died on
a Friday, He rested over the Sabbath and rose to life again on a
"Sunday."  It became the beginning of all things all over again, since
the resurrection of God's Son is the proof that mankind is redeemed.

Because of all these things, the weeks in Calendar View begin on Sunday
and end on Saturday, which has been the traditional arrangement for all
wall and checkbook calendars for some time now.

## Suitable for Printing

FlexiCal's Calendar View provides a web page oriented and sized to print
on the traditional landscape-oriented calendar page, with one month per
page.  Printing the calendar view with pleasing results should be easy,
but that always depends upon the way the user's web browser handles
the printing of web pages.  See
[the help page on printing](?n=views/Printing.en.txt) for more information.

## Features

To see the Calendar View, click the tab at the top of the screen by that
name.  Under the white calendar page, you'll see a block of buttons
and configuration settings.  Within the white page, you'll see a row
of minimal controls and labels across the top, and the familiar
one-month calendar box below it.

### Navigation

To move one month forward or backward in time, click the two arrows
(![Previous Month](../images/leftArrow.gif)
![Next Month](../images/rightArrow.gif))
found the left of the month name and year.  To select a specific month and
year, use the drop-down menus on the right side, and then click the "GO"
button.  To immediately see the current month, click the "Show Current"
box.

### Cell Contents

Most months have at least four extra, blank cells.  Within those extra cells,
the calendar will generate a mini-month display for the prior and
following months, and then show a key of the event categories that
happen to be visible in that month.  (For more about categories, see
[the categories section](?n=categories).) If the calendar runs out of
extra boxes, it will just stop inserting the extra things.

If there are too many category names to fit in one extra box, it will
use more.  An administrator can configure the maximum number of
categories to list in each box with the configuration setting labeled
"<{category_key_limit}>".  You can suppress the category key altogether by
setting "<{show_category_key}>" to false.  Unused blank boxes appear joined
together with a white background.  For convenience in generating printed
calendars, these areas can accept text by clicking on them and typing
directly into them.  The text will appear on the printed calendar, but
is not saved in any way.

The rest of the cells correspond to the days of the month.  Each has its
number in the top-right corner, which becomes a link for certain
logged-in users to create a new event on that date.  The event titles
will fill the box from top to bottom, with long lines wrapping.  (By the
way, the reason I've continued to improve this calendar instead of using
Google Calendar is because it's month view does not wrap long lines.)
Their formatting can be customized as explained in [the Categories
section](?n=categories).

You can configure how many events appear by setting "<{title_limit}>" to
the number of your choice.  If there are more events than that on a
given day, the extra ones will not appear on the calendar.  You might be
able to squeeze in more by setting "<{compact_title_limit}>" to a
reasonable number.  When there are more entries on a given day than
that, they will all appear in a slightly smaller font.  You can limit
the length of each event's displayed title by setting
"<{title_char_limit}>" configuration variable.  Any titles longer than
that limit will be chopped off, leaving an ellipsis.

In Calendar View, event titles may be displayed together with the
starting time, or both the starting time and the ending time for the
event.  To enable the latter, set "<{includeendtimes}>" to true.

All of the configuration variables are available for administrators
only, and they must be set by editing a configuration file.  It's
possible that a future version will keep these settings in a database
table instead, and allow administrators to set them with their web
browser.

### Seeing Details and Manipulating Events

Users with sufficient privileges can manipulate events in Calendar View
by clicking on the event title or time.  With a Javascript-enabled web
browser, a small row of icons will be displayed to allow various
operations.

* ![Show](../images/show.png) The Show icon displays event details in
  a new page.  With sufficient privileges, the user can perform other
  operations from the event details page, such as copying or deleting
  the event.  All users can see the event title and description, as well
  as start and end times.  There are links to the next or previous related
  events, if they exist.

* ![Copy](../images/copy.png) The Copy icon allows the user to copy
  the event by displaying the copy form in a new page.  For more about
  copying, see [the copying section](?n=copying).

* ![Edit](../images/edit.png) The Edit icon allows the user to edit
  that particular event.  For more about editing events, see [the basic
  usage section](?n=basic).

* ![Delete](../images/trash.png) The Delete icon allows the user to
  delete that event.  Javascript must be enabled to do this, so that
  FlexiCal can use a confirmation dialog to make sure you haven't
  clicked the delete icon by accident.

Events that are related to other events will have two other icons, but
for information on using them, please see [the related events
page](<?n=basic/Related Events.en.txt>).

For information on using the block of buttons below the calendar, please
see [the footprint buttons page](<?n=basic/Footprint Buttons.en.txt>).

## Narrowing the Events Shown by Category and Filter

There are three ways to control the scope of events that are displayed
in Calendar View.  One is by selecting the month you want displayed.
You can also select particular categories to be displayed and suppress
the others.  This is done with the "Configure Categories" button in the
button block.  For more information, see [the categories
section](?n=categories).  Another powerful way to specify which events
to display is to set a filter, which is explained in [the filtering
section](?n=filtering).

<!- vim: set tw=72 ft=markdown :->
