# Event List View

The Event List view is extremely flexible, whereas the Calendar View is
intentionally constrained to show only one month, in a way likely to fit
on a single sheet of paper when printed.  Without that constraint in
Event List view, the shape and size of the page can vary as much as
needed to contain the events you'd like to see.  If you find that you'd
like to see events organized in a particular way, you will probably be
able to accomplish something close using the Event List view.

## Organization of the Page

At the top of the page are the tabs that allow you to switch between
views.  Below the tabs is the large rectangular content box, and below
that are the blocks of buttons and information about the calendar's
configuration.  These are the same blocks of buttons that appear in
[Calendar View](<?n=Calendar View.en.txt>).

The main content box has a row of information and controls across the
top, a table showing the events, and at the bottom, a total tally of
events shown.

### Selecting the Time Span to Display.

There is almost always a particular date associated with the Event List
view, and that date is displayed on the left side of the top row within
the main content box.  The date may be set in the yellow control form on
the right side of the same row.  Enter the numeric year, month, and day.
Then, enter a span with a number and a drop-down selection of time
units.  For example, you can select 1 day, 2 weeks, 3 months, 4 years,
etc.  When you've selected the date and span, submit it all with the
"Go" button, and the resulting Event List will begin at the selected
date, and include events through the chosen span.

On the left side of the top row are arrow links
(![Previous Month](../images/leftArrow.gif)
![Next Month](../images/rightArrow.gif))
that you can use to jump forward or back by the span of time set in
the yellow control form to the right.  Clicking the "Show Current" box
will immediately set the starting date to the present, without changing
the span.

### Open Time and Overlapping Events

The yellow control form also contains a check box that controls whether
open time between events will be shown.  It's formatted to be
inobtrusive, in a smaller font on a muted background.  Still, it's not
always desirable, and you can shut it off.  The "<{default_open_time}>"
setting on the configuration page determines whether to show open time
when the browser first opens List View.

When events overlap in their time spans, the starting time will appear
in a muted pink color that stands out from the other start times.  It
may alert you to potential conflicts, if the same person is expected to
be in more places than one at the same time.  (Jesus of Nazareth is only
human being capable of that, and that's only because His humanity is
united personally with the divine nature.  Otherwise, not even the
angels are actually capable of this, as far as we know.)

### Event Information Available

Almost all event information is presented in Event List View, including
the date, start and end times, title, event description, and category.
The category names are formatted as they are in [Calendar
View](<?n=views/Calendar View.en.txt>)'s category key, and as the event
titles are formatted in Calendar View.  This can be customized as
described in [the categories section](?n=categories).  The Description
of each event is treated as Markdown-formatted text (using PHP Markdown
Extra), allowing for a simple way to enter and display formatting.

Clicking on the event title shows the details of that event and others
that occur on the same day in a new page.  With sufficient privileges,
the user can perform other operations from the event details page, such
as copying or deleting the event.  All users can see the event title and
description, as well as start and end times.  There are links to the
next or previous related events, if they exist.

## Narrowing the Events Shown by Category and Filter

There are three ways to control the scope of events that are displayed
in List View.  One is by using the yellow control form mentioned above to
specify the time span to be displayed.  You can also select particular
categories to be displayed and suppress the others.  This is done with
the "Configure Categories" button in the button block.  For more
information, see [the categories section](?n=categories).  Another
powerful way to specify which events to display is to set a filter,
which is explained in [the filtering section](?n=filtering).

## Manipulating Events

When a user is logged in with sufficient privileges, he will see a row
of icons appearing at the bottom of each event's Description area.  They
function as follows.

* ![Copy](../images/copy.png) The Copy icon allows the user to copy
  the event by displaying the copy form in a new page.  For more about
  copying, see [the copying section](?n=copying).

* ![Edit](../images/edit.png) The Edit icon allows the user to edit
  that particular event.  For more about editing events, see [the basic
  usage section](?n=basic).

* ![Delete](../images/trash.png) The Delete icon allows the user to
  delete that event.  Javascript must be enabled to do this, so that
  FlexiCal can use a confirmation dialog to make sure you haven't
  clicked the delete icon by accident.

Events that are related to other events will have two other icons, but
for information on using them, please see [the related events
page](<?n=basic/Related Events.en.txt>).

### Batch Manipulation of Events

When a filter has been set up (see [the filtering
section](?n=filtering)), Event List View will show logged-in users with
sufficient privileges a series of button links across the top of the main
content table.  These allow the user to perform various actions on all
of the matching events.  They are powerful commands, with potentially
wide influence on your event database.  Use carefully!

* *<{deletestr}>* allows you to delete all of the events
  that are shown in List View.

* *<{relatestr}>* allows you to make all of the events shown
  in List View related to each other, regardless of previous
  relations.  See [the related events page](<?n=basic/Related
  Events.en.txt>) for a description of exactly how this works.

* *<{title}>* allows the user to assign a single new
  title for all of the events shown in List View.

* *<{text}>* allows the user to write a new block of text for
  all of the events shown in List View, replacing the previous text.

* *<{category}>* allows the user to recategorize all of the
  events shown in List View with a single category to be selected.


<!- vim: set tw=72 ft=markdown :->
