# Range Summary View

A range summary is what we call the traditional layout often used to
show major events in a school year. Events are grouped under month
headings in the center of the page, while mini-month calendars along the
sides show which days are affected. In this version, there's also a
tally of days in each category.

## Month Range

This view doesn't span from date to date, but from month to month.  When
first loaded, the configuration interface for this is hidden, and
defaults to only the current month. Clicking the plus (+) link expands
the interface so that the months may be specified. The format is yyyy-mm
for the beginning and ending months. When the user clicks "set range,"
these parameters are saved to the current PHP session. (Not the
long-term, [configurable](?n=admin/Configuration.en.txt) extended
auth session.)

## <{show day tally}> Checkbox

The <{show day tally}> checkbox controls whether the tally of events in
each category will be shown. This setting is also saved to the PHP
session, like the month parameters.

## Linking to the Page

It may not be desirable to show all categories in this view, if
there are too many events, or categories that are less useful. The user
may select the categories to display in the usual way, limiting the
number of categories shown.

As a convenience, Flexical generates a special link under the text
<{direct link}> that will automatically configure the selected
categories as well as the month and <{show day tally}> parameters. It's
not immediately useful to someone already viewing this page, but the
link may be copied and used elsewhere, so that the page in its current
configuration may be instantly loaded, without the hassle of
reconfiguring it.

## Printing

This layout uses Javascript to set up a double-column format, with
balanced columns. As a result, some web browsers may not be able to
print this page exactly as seen on screen. To help with this, the
<{print}> link uses Javascript that may bypass the usual printing
mechanism, allowing the format to preserved in the printed copy.

The page is designed to look best when printed in portrait orientation.
The extra space to the left of the right column of calendars should
disappear on paper, in this orientation.

## Special Tally Configuration

Besides showing the number of events in a category, the
<{show day tally}> configuration allows for more configurable counting of
days within a time span. This is accomplished by including special
commands in the event description of an event that starts a range of
days and another event that ends the range. The commands must appear at
the beginning of a line, and be followed by a double-quoted label used
in the tally listing. Here is an example:

    StartCount "Student Contact Days"

...and in a later event:

    EndCount "Student Contact Days"

Certain days in the range may be excluded from the count by putting an
event on those days in one of the calendar's event categories. All
events in that category may be excluded by putting an additional command
in the same event description that contains `StartCount`:

    StartCount "Student Contact Days"
    ExcludeCount "In-Service"
    ExcludeCount "Holidays"

In addition, special names are available to be excluded, which will
exclude every instance of the days indicated. The following is just for
illustration, since it would exclude every day:

    StartCount "Student Contact Days"
    ExcludeCount "Sundays"
    ExcludeCount "Mondays"
    ExcludeCount "Tuesdays"
    ExcludeCount "Wednesdays"
    ExcludeCount "Thursdays"
    ExcludeCount "Fridays"
    ExcludeCount "Saturdays"
    ExcludeCount "Weekends"
    ExcludeCount "Weekdays"

