
# Configuration

A super-user, like the first one created when the calendar is first
installed, will see a block of button links below the calendar containing the
button *<{configure}>*.  Clicking that button will show the
configuration screen, where the current configuration can be adjusted
and a new group of settings saved.

## Configuration Options

*<{language}>*
: A 2-letter code that configures Flexical to use the
   correct translation for its interface.

*<{site_title}>*
: An overall name for this installation.

*<{sitetabs}>*
: Which site tabs will appear in the interface, in the
   order they should appear from left to right. Each site tab is
   template module under /templates.

*<{default_action}>*
: What will be loaded when no tab/template has been chosen.

*<{title_limit}>*
: In a normal font-size, how many events may be listed
   on the 1-month calendar template. Surplus events will be omitted.

*<{compact_title_limit}>*
: The same as above, when the font size has
   been adjusted for a compact calendar.

*<{title_char_limit}>*
:  The longest possible tite displayed in the
   1-month calendar template. Surplus characters will be omitted, with
   an ellipsis.

*<{category_key_limit}>*
: The number of categories permitted in a
   single calendar cell for the category key in the 1-month template.

*<{show_category_key}>*
: Whether to show or hide the category key in
   the 1-month template.

*<{include_end_times}>*
: Should event end times be shown in the 1-month view?

*<{default_time}>*
: When it has not been set by the user, which time
    format should be displayed for events in all views?

*<{default_open_time}>*
: In the list-view template, should open time
    between events be displayed by default?

*<{cross_links}>*
: A JSON-formatted associative array showing the link
    text (array key) and link destination (array value) for a series of
    links to display across the very top of the calendar screen. This
    allows for better integration with a larger web site.

*<{email_from_address}>*
: When a user requests a password reset, this
    address will be used in the "from" field of the email.

*<{google_user}>*
: The Google username to use when exporting events
    into that person's default Google calendar.

*<{google_password}>*
: The password for the above Google username.

*<{default_timezone}>*
: New events will be given this timezone by
    default.

*<{local_php_library}>*
: Where Flexical should look for a PHP library
    providing the ability to export to a Google calendar.

*<{authcookie_max_age}>*
: To extend the normal PHP session, an
    additional authorization cookie may be saved in the user's browser,
    so that when the PHP session has expired, the user may still be
    recognized by Flexical. This sets the number of days that the
    authorization cookie will last.

*<{authcookie_path}>*
: Flexical also stores authorization cookie data
    on the server. This setting determines where that will be stored.
    When a site has multiple Flexical installations, they can share a
    location for this, so that all user sessions may be extended at the
    same time. This is a limited implementation of single sign-on.

## Configuration History

FlexiCal is designed to save the old settings, associated with the date
on which they were last made effective.  If you make a mistake with the
settings, and would like to revert to an old set, then use the link
under the heading of the configuration screen, where it says
"<{configuration history}>".

That link will show a self-documented page listing all of the saved
calendar configurations.  To revert to an old configuration, click on
the date above it.  The current (left-most) configuration will be saved,
while the chosen older configuration moved to its left and given a new
time and date stamp.

If you would like *permanently* to remove some of the saved
configurations, click on the checkbox near the time and date stamp, and
then click the  *<{delete}>* button in the top-left corner of the table.
If the currently active configuration is deleted, then the next most
recent configuration will become active.  If all configurations are
deleted, then a new one will have to be created immediately.

## Recovering from Hosed Calendar Installation

A handful of things can go wrong with your calendar installation.  Here
are some tips for repairing or recovering your calendar.  I'll write
the tips in increasing order of severity.  If the first doesn't work,
then you can try the second, and so forth.

### Corrupted or Broken Database Tables

1. Restore from backup.  You have backups, right?

2. Remove and reinstall the database tables by loading the special
   script mentioned in the
   [Installation document](?n=Installation.en.php).

### There are no configurations, but you can't create one, because you're not logged in.

1. Log in.  From the root of the installation, load `login.php`
   directly.  That just might work.

2. In some cases, there might be no users defined yet.  So define some
   by going to `index.php?initialize=Flexical` from the root of the
   installation.

### You have configured the calendar but somehow deleted `db.php`

That file contains the database connection information for the calendar,
so losing it means that the calendar can't connect to the databases.
Your data should still be safe in its database tables, so just load the
calendar into your web browser as normal.  It will detect what needs to
be done and ask you for the information it needs.  You *did* save your
database connection information somewhere, right?  If not, you can
probably get it from your web host.

### Failure in restoring a backup to a newer calendar version

Follow these steps:

1. Install an older calendar version.

2. Restore the backup.  If it doesn't work, try a version older still.

3. Upgrade the calendar installation by copying the contents of a new
   archive right over the top of the existing installation, replacing
   files where necessary.

4. Upgrade as described in
   [Backups and Upgrades](<?n=admin/Backups and Upgrades.en.txt>).

5. Check your data and installation.


<!- vim: set tw=72 ft=markdown :->
